---
title: paket vs nuget vs nuget package references
tags:
- Development
- Nuget
- DependencyManagement
- Nuget
- paket
description: Overview Codis was using paket, but as mentioned below, there are issues
  authenticating against the AzureDevops package feed meant that it could not…
created: '2019-03-12'
modified: '2019-12-27'
original_url: https://codislimited.sharepoint.com/sites/Wiki/Pages/paket%20vs%20nuget%20vs%20nuget%20package%20references.aspx
---

# Overview

Codis was using paket, but as mentioned below, there are issues authenticating against the AzureDevops package feed meant that it could not be used anymore.  The possible method for using it detailed below did not work consistently.  Caching of packages would mean that sometimes local copies were used without retrieving from DevOps so it was sometimes difficult to follow what worked and what didn't.

Note that is does seem to be possible to combine paket with package references, although this can be confusing.

# Old nuget (pre project.json and package references)

## Advantages

Quick to use with lots of documentation.

## Disadvantages

Doesn't handle transitive dependencies.

Does not allow a policy to be applied across a solution other than by using nuget management, which is not stored in the repo.

# Paket

## Advantages

1. [https://www.infoq.com/news/2016/01/paket\-package\-manager](https://www.infoq.com/news/2016/01/paket-package-manager)
2. paket.templates are more powerful than nuspec files.  e.g. is the include\-project\-references option possible in a nuspec?

## Disadvantages

1. Paket seems to manipulate the project file and inserts references.  Sometimes it seems to struggle \- in particular with conditional references like those inserted for test projects.
2. You can only know that a reference comes from paket by examination.

## Notes:

There have always been issues authenticating against the AzureDevops package feed.  Behaviour is difficult to pin down but I think... 

- Ensure you use the latest version of paket.exe.
- Use Setup and Cleanup Paket CredentialManager steps in AzureDevops builds.
- Use .paket\\paket config add\-credentials https://codislimited.pkgs.visualstudio.com/\_packaging/Codis/nuget/v3/index.json \-\-verify to configure access from your PC.  This is stored in \<user folder\>\\AppData\\Roaming\\Paket\\paket.config.  Do not edit this file directly.  You can use your user name \+ personal token (generated in AzureDevOps from your account settings).  **You may have to delete the config file before you reset.  Otherwise an object not set error seems to occur.**
- We have stored credentials in the paket.dependencies file.  This is not desirable.  It may not be neccessary if the steps above are used.

# Package References (Project.json)

https://docs.microsoft.com/en\-us/nuget/consume\-packages/package\-references\-in\-project\-files

## Advantages

1. This is in many ways a really neat solution.  Packages are stored in one place on a computer rather than copied to each solution.  The package is referenced from the project and the msbuild knows to reference the assemblies so there are no reference entries for each assembly in the package as old nuget or paket has.  The package reference is clearly visible in the designer.
2. You can code conditions into your project files, or apply them to a whole directory structure using directory.props.  These conditions can be based on e.g. project build configuration, so this allows us to have simple conditional references to e.g. Sage assemblies based on configuration, easily applied across projects.

## Disadvantages

1. You cannot see the version of the package except by examination of the project file.
2. Long discussion [here](https://github.com/fsprojects/Paket/issues/1230) about how it stacks up against paket.
3. Content and tools are treated in the same way as assemblies in that they are not copied to the projects but are referenced in the build.   You can override this by configuring a nuspec file with a ContentFiles section.  However this doesn't seem to be supported for paket templates nor is it recognised by paket.  This is significant as some packages deliver content that is used in installers.
