---
title: Sales Invoice Creation And Verifying Journal Entries
tags:
- Sage X3
description: '1. Graphical view – Ledger posting 2. Creation of Sales Invoice Transaction
  Code: GESSIH Description: Sales Invoice creation This function is used to…'
created: '2017-01-27'
modified: '2017-01-27'
original_url: https://codislimited.sharepoint.com/sites/Wiki/Pages/Sales%20Invoice%20Creation%20And%20Verifying%20Journal%20Entries.aspx
---

1\. Graphical view – Ledger posting 

2\. Creation of Sales Invoice 

**Transaction Code: GESSIH       Description: Sales Invoice creation** 

This function is used to manage all invoices (invoices for orders, for delivery notes, for service contracts, for service requests), among which the direct invoices and pro\-forma invoices. It is also used to manage the direct credit memos and the credit memos on invoices and customer returns. This function also can be used to modify or delete automatically generated invoices. 

## Fields explanation:

Sales site – The sales site is initialized by the sales site associated with the user. The sales site can be modified (as long as no line has been entered on the document) provided it has been chosen from the list of sales sites authorized to the user. 

Type – The customer invoice type is used for the Sales and BP Customer invoices. It identifies a category of invoice (invoice, credit memo etc.) along with a posting structure for the posting of the invoices. The invoice type is associated to a type of journal for which a counter (manual or automatic) is specified. 

Bill\-to Customer – This is BP Code of the customer requesting the invoice to create in case of a direct invoice. It is controlled in the customer table and It must be active. In the case of an order or delivery invoice, it is the original invoice customer. It cannot be modified. 

Date – This field indicates the system calendar date and can be modified as per the requirement. 

Sold\-to/Pay\-by/Group customer – This information cannot be modified and is initialized by the bill\-to customer code in the case of a direct invoice or credit memo or by the sold\-to customer for the document to be invoiced in the case of the invoicing of orders, shipments, service contracts, etc. 

Delivery Address \- The shipment address is initialized by the default address code associated with the bill\-to customer in the case of a direct invoice if any, otherwise, it is the first address code in the list that is proposed. By the address code of the first original document selected in the event of the invoicing of an order, of a shipment, etc. 

Tax Rule \- This information is mandatory and is modifiable. It is initialized by the tax rule of the bill\-to customer in the case of a direct invoice or credit memo. Otherwise, it comes from the original document. It is used to define the tax rule to be applied to the invoice. This information is controlled by the BP tax rules miscellaneous table. From this field, we can: • Select a Tax rule from the table, • Create according to the authorizations held by the user. If this information has been modified, the taxes will be automatically re\-calculated. 

**Path:** **Sales  Invoices  Invoice Lines** 

## Grid:

Product \- The entry of a product reference is mandatory. From the Product field, several possibilities are offered to the user. The user can directly enter a product reference or a Product reference. The existence of this reference is controlled in the Product and Product/customer records. If a Product\-customer reference has been entered, the system will automatically return the internal product reference. 

Qty. Invoiced – We need to select the required qty. to be invoiced for the customer and it is mandatory. 

Gross Price \& Discounts – This field value will be fetched from the Price list and hence these can be modified. The other fields data will be auto\-fetched based on the setup. 

Once the Invoice is created and posted, it will be shown an 'Open Item' until the payment is made. 

3\.       View the Auto\-Journal entry created 

**Transaction Code:** **GESGAS****Description: Creation of Journal entries**

This function is to create the journal entries manually for ex:\- miscellaneous expenses. These entries are also generated automatically from the Purchasing, Sales, Inventory and all other respective modules. When a posting is entered directly, its counterpart is mandatory. For the journals generated by other modules, the counterpart is automatic (balanced). 

Lines Grid:
