---
title: Assigning specific GL Accounts in Accounting Codes Setup
tags:
- Sage X3
description: '1. Create Accounting Code entry transaction Transaction Code: GESGCO
  Description: Accounting code entry transaction This function is the first step…'
created: '2017-01-23'
modified: '2017-01-27'
original_url: https://codislimited.sharepoint.com/sites/Wiki/Pages/Assigning%20specific%20GL%20Accounts%20in%20Accounting%20Codes%20Setup.aspx
---

# 1\. Create Accounting Code entry transaction

**Transaction Code: GESGCO       Description: Accounting code entry transaction** 

This function is the first step in setting up of the Accounting Codes. These are then defined for an Accounting Code Entry Transaction. It is used to define the list of Chart of Accounts within which the Accounting Propagation is to be carried out, a legislation being specified if necessary. Before defining accounting codes, you can also create account code entry transactions. These transaction types define the chart of accounts and the columns available for accounting codes created using the specific transaction type. This allows you to create accounting codes specific to a chart of accounts. 

## Fields explanation:

Transaction code – We need to specify the code which does not exceed more than FIVE characters and description for creating Entry transaction. 

Legislation – It is not mandatory to apply. 

Chart of Accounts \- We can select one or more chart of accounts. This allows us to define which account number to use for an account in different chart of accounts. For example, for the Sales account, we can select an account specific to the ENG chart of accounts, BRI chart of accounts, etc. 

**Path: Parameters  Financials  Accounting Interface  Acc. code entry transactions** 

# 2\.       Assigning GL accounts in Accounting Codes Setup

**Transaction Code       Description GESPER       Opening Fiscal Periods**

The principle of the accounting codes consists of defining the modality of the account postings for the entries automatically generated by X3\. The accounting codes are associated with the parameterization of the "automatic journals" and are used to specify the accounts to be used for each posting lines. For each line of the automatic journal parameterized, the accounting codes to be used will be specified as well as the order of priority. For each accounting code, we must define an ID at the Code field as well as a title and short title. •       Existing accounting codes are displayed in the Left List and are grouped based on the accounting code type. The lines listed are based on the type selected, which are defined in the Accounting code lines task. •       For each line, we can optionally define the actual account to use for each chart of accounts associated with the transaction selected when accessing this task. •       If we leave an account blank, it is assumed you are setting up the automatic journal to either include an account or to look to another source. \- It is important to note, the system does not verify the account entered exists. 

The system can construct one account based on more than one accounting code within one automatic journal. \- The lines constructed must have Modifier select as the account type. \- The account can be created by combining lines of the same accounting code or by combining lines of different accounting codes. Any account filled with an "X" is replaced by another character defined in another accounting code line. \- Once the "X" has a value, it is not changed again. This is in case there is more than one parameterization for the same character. \- At the end of the search, any remaining "X" values are replaced by a zero (0\). This is the reason why the second character in the example below turned out to be a zero. The selection of the Automatic creation check box on the chart of accounts determines if the account constructed is automatically created if it does not exist. \- If this check box is cleared, an error message displays on the appropriate log report when trying to update general ledger. 

**Path: Parameters  Financials  Accounting Interface  Accounting codes** 

**Note:** \- Based on the ledgers setup in the account core model, we can have multiple ledgers as shown in the above screenshot.
