---
title: Creation of Account core model, Ledgers & Charts of accounts
tags:
- Sage X3
description: 1. Creation of Accounting Core Model Transaction Code Description GESGCM
  Account Core Model Accounting Core Model is to associate different charts of…
created: '2017-01-25'
modified: '2017-01-25'
original_url: https://codislimited.sharepoint.com/sites/Wiki/Pages/Creation%20of%20Account%20core%20model,%20Ledgers%20&%20Charts%20of%20accounts.aspx
---

1\. Creation of Accounting Core Model 

Transaction Code       Description GESGCM       Account Core Model 

Accounting Core Model is to associate different charts of accounts. We can combine both Legal and Analytical ledgers in one Core Model. 

As a result, the same model can be linked to one or several legal companies with the same legislation (or country). It can manage up to five ledger keeping currencies and twenty dimension types. 

Fields explanation \- 

Account core model – We should give the unique code for our Account core model and it should not exceed more than THREE characters. 

Short title – We can give any description for our identification. Main general ledger \- The main general ledger is the only ledger from which legal or structuring operations are generated and can be carried out. Main analytical ledger \- The main analytical ledger is the only ledger from which some initializations (by default, the inquiry of dimensions can be done in the main analytical ledger) and some controls (it is mandatory to enter it in the BP invoice entry setup, but with a order that can be parametrized) can be processed. Main IAS ledger \- This ledger type is used in the depreciation context setup. The depreciation context is defined at the company level. For a chart in this context, the chart will identify the ledger code and make a link with the corresponding ledger code as long as its 'Depreciation basis origin' is 'IAS valuation'. Ledger types \- This list is automatically loaded from local menu 2644\. There can be up to 10 ledger types, which generally are: •       Social accounting ledger, •       Analytical accounting ledger(s), •       Reporting\-type ledgers (IAS, US GAAP). Each accounting transaction, either it is directly entered by the user in journal entry mode, generated via the automatic journals from an upstream module, or imported from an external application, is entered on a "ledger type". In a given model, if no ledger code is specified for a given ledger type, this ledger will not be loaded. We have to assign the created ledgers in the Ledgers Grid and can have two different currencies for each Legal \& Analytical ledger. If we want to set Analytical as similar to Legal ledger, we need to select 'Yes' in Auto ledger to auto\-fetch the ledger and Doc. Rate type also can be changed. 

**Path: Parameters  Organisational Structure  Account core models** 

2\. Creation of Ledgers 

Transaction Code       Description GESLED       Ledgers 

The general ledger is the main accounting record of a business which uses double\-entry bookkeeping. The general ledger can be supported by one or more subsidiary ledgers that provide details for accounts in the general ledger. For Analytical ledger, the dimension types must also be specified. A same dimension type code can be used in various ledgers belonging or not to the same model. Ledger can be a General and/or an Analytical Chart of Accounts. 

Fields explanation: Ledger – We need to enter a short code and description to identify the ledger. It cannot be more than THREE characters. General – This represents your legal ledger. Purchases, sales, and payments post against this ledger. Financial statements such as Balance Sheets and Income Statements are generated based on this ledger type. Accounts must balance in the General ledger. We must define at least one ledger as General. 

Analytical – We must have a ledger defined as Analytical to post information based on dimensions. A General ledger can also be defined as an Analytical ledger. 

Budget – We must have at least one Budget ledger defined to track budget information for an account. This option is only available if Analytical is also selected. We can have both an analytical ledger used for tracking postings by dimension and a separate analytical ledger for budgets. 

Operating Budgets – This option is only available if Analytical is also selected and if Operating Budgets is activated. If selected, we must have a dimension of Entity and Envelope associated with it. We can have both an analytical ledger used for tracking postings by dimension and a separate analytical ledger for operating budgets. 

Commitments – This must be selected in order to benefit from the automatic creation of pre\-commitments and commitments generated by the Purchase module. This option is only available if Analytical is also selected. If this check box is not selected for the main analytical ledger defined in the account core model, than only the manual entry of commitments is possible. 

Balance – This check box to ensure that a journal entry is in balance prior to posting (e.g. debits equal credits). This check box must be selected for the main general ledger. 

Balance by site – If we are posting entries from site to site, we can optionally choose to ensure the entry balances within each site by selecting the Balance by site check box. The balance is achieved using the linked accounts defined in the chart of accounts. 

Matching – Matching consists of pairing account postings in order to facilitate the analysis of an account balance on a given date. For example, matching the posting for an invoice with the posting for the payment. Select the Matching check box to ensure postings are matched either manually or automatically based on the journal for the entry. 

At least one dimension – This check box to make it mandatory that a user select at least one dimension code when posting an entry to the Analytical ledger. The check box is only available if Analytical is selected as the type of ledger and a minimum of 1 dimension type code is defined in the CoA and dimension types Section. 

Storage of empty postings – This check box is to allow for the system to track a blank dimension value; otherwise, if selected, an entry must be made. The check box is only available if Analytical is selected as the type of ledger and a minimum of 1 dimension type code is defined in the CoA and dimension types Section and the At least one dimension check box is not selected. 

**Path: Parameters  Organisational Structure  References** 

3\. Chart Code – We need to create and assign the Chart of Accounts and which are associated with the ledger. 

No. dim. – If the Analytical is checked, this field becomes mandatory and need to enter the dimension type values. We can enter maximum up to 9 dimensions. 

Generation type \- •       Site: The processing generates a carry\-forward journal by currency/site combination. •       Company: The processing generates a carry\-forward journal by currency/company combination. C/fwd. balance – Select the C/fwd. balance check box to generate a carry\-forward entry as part of the fiscal year\-end process. This check box is automatically selected if Balance is selected in the Control section, which ensures it is selected for the main General ledger. 

Closing document – If selected, a closing report is generated showing all of the closing entries and is generated as part of the fiscal year\-end process. 

One journal per account \- Select the One journal per account check box to generate this report separately for each individual account. 3\.        Creation of Charts of Accounts: 

Transaction Code       Description GESCOA       Charts of Accounts 

Chart of accounts is a grouping of GL account groups that are used to post the transaction across the modules. These can be further used for reporting like Balance Sheet, P\&L, and Trial Balance etc...Chart of accounts are usually very specific to an organization and you will not find the same chart of account across two different companies. Ledger is associated with a single chart of accounts. The same chart of accounts can be associated with various ledgers. A company can have a maximum of ten ledgers, hence ten charts of accounts. 

Charts of Accounts can be a General and/or an Analytical Chart of Accounts. Fields explanation: Chart Code – We need to enter a short code and description to identify our company. It cannot be more than THREE characters. Column Header – This field specifies Specify here a column header that will be used on journal or invoice entry. General Tracking – If the chart of accounts is only general, the ledger cannot be analytical. If the chart of accounts is general and analytical, the ledger can be general or analytical. Analytical management – If the chart of accounts is only analytical, the ledger cannot be general. If the chart of accounts is general and analytical, the ledger can be general or analytical. Collective Account \- For a general or analytical chart of accounts, it is possible to manage collective accounts and these accounts are used for Customer \& Supplier accounts. Tax Management – If this box is checked, access is granted to information linked to VAT in the account record. If it is not checked, it is not possible to access the management of tax codes for instance: the IAS and analytical plans theoretically do not manage the tax codes. The box may thus be left empty. Automatic Creation – If the box is ticked and if the account to use via the accounting interface or the import does not exist, it is created automatically by the processing and takes the previous account as a template. Fixed length \- This option defines if the accounts have a variable or fixed length. Account format \- This option is used to provide the accounts (normal and collective types) with the same number of characters. If the field is not entered, the number of characters will vary. It can take the following values: •       10 c: 10 alphanumerical characters, •       10 \# : 10 numerical characters, •       3\#7c: 3 numerical characters and 7 alphanumerical characters. Default classes \- Identifier of the account class, composed of one to ten alphanumerical characters. It is the account class by default associated with the current chart of accounts. This value comes by default from the setup of the chart of accounts. The subdivision into classes enables the off balance\-sheet accounts to be distinguished from the others. Path: Parameters  Organisational Structure  Charts of Accounts Miscellaneous accounts Tab: The "Miscellaneous accounts" tab displays the list of all the miscellaneous accounts which can be linked to the current chart of accounts and will be used in the year\-end activities. Linked Accounts Tab: The setup function for the reciprocal accounts makes it possible to define the accounts that will be used to automatically save the balancing lines between the various sites of the current document. For all the companies using the chart code of a ledger having the Balancing by site option checked, the first line can be empty. The account specified in the first line will be used for all the sites, with the next lines generating exceptions. Reporting codes Tab: A reporting code is used to regroup the accounts in order to total the debtor or creditor balances, and then draw up synthesis tables (reporting statements, consolidation statements, yearly reports, etc.), via the standard setup tool of the "Financial data extraction". Default accounts Tab: The "Default accounts" tab is used to initialize the default account of the account record when creating an account or when running the current setup. A default account of a 'destination' chart of accounts can be combined with the account root of a 'source' chart of accounts. Default dimension types Tab: The combination of a default dimension type with an account root of the current chart (if the analytical type is checked) implies that all the accounts compatible with this root will be tracked on this dimension type. The setup option of the default dimension types is used to assign default dimension types upon initialization when an account is created or subsequently via the Execute button, i.e. by completely re\-performing the setup. This assignment can later be manually modified in the account record. Screen codes Tab: When the account inquiry is used, a default screen can be associated depending on the nature of the account and the information to be displayed. The purpose of this tab is to specify a default screen by account root (the assignment consisting in taking the longest root applicable to the account). The account inquiry screen codes must have been defined.
