---
title: Supplier Invoice Payments & Journal Entries
tags:
- Sage X3
description: '1. Creation of Payment for Supplier Invoice Transaction Code: GESPAY
  Description: Payments This function is used to: • Create a payment associated…'
created: '2017-01-27'
modified: '2017-01-27'
original_url: https://codislimited.sharepoint.com/sites/Wiki/Pages/Supplier%20Invoice%20payments%20&%20Journal%20entries.aspx
---

1\. Creation of Payment for Supplier Invoice 

**Transaction Code: GESPAY       Description: Payments** 

This function is used to: • Create a payment associated with an invoice/order, • To view all the entered payments, by payment transaction, • Generate a journal for the payment entered, or to know the grouping/posting stages that remain to be carried out. • To view all the payment journals already generated with respect to this payment. 

## Fields explanation:

Site \- The operation site code is initialized via the site associated with the user code. It can be modified provided it is chosen from the list of authorized sites. 

BP – We need to select the BP supplier to be paid against the invoice and other Collective details will be auto\-fetched. Based on the BP selection, the left list invoice open items will filter for selection. 

Accounting date \- This date determines the accounting date of the generated journal. 

Bank – We need to select the Bank from the list to be paid against and accounted. This is the Bank/Cash management in which the all the cash operations will be recorded. This bank/cash management is linked to a site (potentially to a specific company). 

Currency \- The currency to carry out the payment is defined in this field. By default, it is the business partner currency. A few cases to be highlighted: • The payment currency is different from the invoice currency (payment lines) : other that the main posting (automatic journals PRINC or STEPN), an MO journal is generated via the PYODD automatic journal. • The payment currency is different from the bank currency (the bank currency is set up at cash general account level): other that the main posting (automatic journals PRINC or STEPN), an MO journal is generated via the automatic journal PYODD or PYDVN. 

BP amount \- This field represent the effective amount for the payment. • This amount is expressed in the payment currency (see the Currency field). For information, the currency in which this amount is expressed is displayed beside the field. • It is important to enter this amount because the open items selected on the payment will then have a default amount equivalent to that of the open item, up to the amount entered in this field. 

Check number \- The check number is used to provide payment traceability. It is taken as a reference in the journal entry generated by the payment processing Lines Grid: The below details are the invoice elements carried out after the "Open item" selection from the left list. 

**Path: A/P\-A/R Accounting  Payments  Payment/Receipt Entry**
